[Music]
for my daughter on her 21st birthday by
Ellen
bass when they laid you in the crook of
my arms like a bouquet and I looked into
your eyes dark bits of evening Sky I
thought of course this is you like a
person who has never seen the sea can
recognize it
instantly they pulled you from me like a
cork and all the love flowed out I
adored you with the squandering passion
of spring that shoots Green from every
pore you dug me out like a well you lit
the Deadwood of my heart you pinned me
to the Earth with the points of
stars I was sure that kind of love would
be
enough I thought I was your mother how
could I have known that over and over
you would crack the sky like lightning
Illuminating all my fears my weaknesses
my
sins massive the burden this flesh must
learn to bear like mules of
Love wow what was that poem who wrote
that it's for my daughter on her 21st
birthday by Alan
bass oh give me chills I love that oh
yeah yeah
wow well that's a good as good of an
intro as I could imagine there possibly
being to this
episode great
uh welcome to the art of
accomplishment do that again
okay all right welcome to the art of
accomplishment where we explore how
deepening our connection with ourselves
and others leads to creating the life we
want with enjoyment and
ease I'm Alexa and I'm Brett and and I'm
Joe and I'm Overjoyed watching you too
is
great I'm so happy to see you today Joe
my heart is still exploding from the
other
day yeah thank you that was a great day
you're
welcome so if you if you haven't
discerned this so far today's episode is
going to be on Parenthood and we don't
yet know what we're going to talk about
but right now Alexa and I have been
sitting for a little while in the
question for a little while by that I
mean a couple of years we've been
sitting in the question of when kids how
kids what does it mean ah identity
Freedom how do we do it how do we do it
in a way that serves the kids best takes
care of ourselves what is parenting with
view what is what is is life if we don't
have kids in view what what what are we
missing if we don't do One path or the
other ah Panic yeah that's kind of where
we've been yeah and just to add to it I
mean I didn't ever consider that I might
want kids until quite late in life
likewise like until I fell in love with
Brett and imagined what it would be like
to raise a person with you um and so it
it's like the clock has been running out
ever since we even thought we might want
to do it yeah yeah similar for me I was
not expecting to want that
until until I imagined it with
you so that seems like a sign
and and it's super scary yeah it's super
scary I didn't I didn't uh I didn't
spend most of my life thinking that all
of the parenting things I was seeing
applied to me in any way
um
yeah yeah so to kick this off I one of
the burning questions for me is like one
of the things that I notic that I'm in
is it's still around the what if we have
kids what if we don't what are those two
completely different life trajectories
and I'm curious for you how you
experienced that process
like to what extent were you like oh man
kids I really want the the love and the
joy and
the the the growth and
the having having kids of my own
experience and I'm afraid of like not
getting not accomplishing the things I
want to accomplish not having time for
friends completely changing and not
having not being able to relate to like
kidless people there's a a lot of things
that I hear people talk about in their
journey and um a lot of it honestly is
just terrifying for me I'm curious what
that was like for you and what was
unexpected about the journey for you for
me it was just really clear I didn't
want to have kids Tera really wanted to
have kids like when she hit like 30
she's like I want kids I want kids I
want kids and I was like no no no no and
um and then there was a call there was
just like it was just clear it was clear
like oh this is the the the kid wants to
come
now so for me the the the the odd
experience and it feels kind of woo woo
but I can't deny what's true is that
like it I literally just felt like oh
it's it's time this this wants to happen
so it was more of a calling and less of
a intellectual decision to okay now is
the time to have kids it was like
literally felt like
it felt like okay now now is the time
and and we I think we had sex like we
had been having unprotected sex for
years we were being as careful as you
can being unprotected um but then we
were like okay now it's time I was like
now it's time to's like yeah I feel it
it's time and boom like one
one she was pregnant wow it was just
like that it was so it was so clear so
that that's how it was for me it wasn't
wasn't uh there was no intellectual
decision that was being made it was just
very clear no and then it was a very
clear yes and I wasn't really
contemplating whether I should or
shouldn't I I definitely remember
feeling like we're not financially
stable enough to have
kids yeah but we sure as hell were not
financially stable enough when
we when we conceived Esme like um
between the moment of conceiving Esme
and her birth like I went from like out
of like in from major debt just from
like living because I was meditating all
the time to completely out of debt in
that nine-month period and making like
the best salary I'd ever
made you know that's a great question
there's a saying that says that like
um babies come with loaves of bread
under their arms that like like you look
throughout America and it's like like
most kids they like they show up and
like there're somehow or another figure
out a way to be taken care of and
so but I I think what happens is my
experience was something hormonally
probably kicked in for me teror was like
I'm going to be the I'm going to be the
bread winner you're going to be the
stay-at-home dad I was like yep and then
as soon as she got pregnant all that
[__] changed like it was I was just like
was like okay let's make money and Tera
and by the time the baby was born tera's
like yeah I'm not leaving this kid [__]
making money you go do that
you know it was like the entire roles
what we thought was going to happen
didn't
happen which was like yeah the the
biggest pain and and also the biggest
love of having children especially in
the early ages is it felt like it was a
deep tissue massage right like the more
you resisted you were just [__] so you
don't resist you just like it's going to
tear parts of your identity away it's
going to tear parts of what you think is
right away like everything just starts
shifting and if
you and I think that the the spiritual
journey of having being a parent is
allowing all that stuff to be let go and
to have it ripped from you so that you
can find out what your essence
is I don't see a lot of parents do that
but if you do that it's like an
incredibly important journey to be on
and that happened like right from the
beginning right from the beginning it
was just like you think this nope you
think you control this nope you think
you can control you think you control
how you sleep nope it was just like
everything was just
taken yeah I'm curious to what extent
that you know prior to Esme being born
prior to conception even when you
started to feel that call to what extent
did you feel like that call was dragging
you kicking and screaming through the
through the field or to what extent you
felt the call and you just dropped
everything else you're like okay I'm on
this call now
it was surprisingly it was surprisingly
like Yep this is the time I can't deny
it it was surprisingly that it was like
I would have expected Kicking and
Screaming because I was so I was like no
no no for so long and then when it hit
yes it was just so
clear and terara was going through her
journey too and I definitely like in
retrospect I see how
like Tara and I met in a way that also
like there was a she was doing her
change she was very focused on work and
she was changing that was moving in her
to the point where we could be more
connected and I think that was part of
what made it like oh this is the time
this feels right but it was without a
doubt just felt like it was like knock
knock knock knock it's time let me in
like that was the feeling wow I'm
envious I mean I have a lot of confusion
that it was so clear but I
don't oh I feel like there are calls in
both directions for
me
yeah yeah not wasn't my was a very clear
no and then a yep okay let's do this now
the third kid was like Tara was like a
very clear yes and I was a very clear no
and that was that was a different thing
but both una and Esme was like a clear
calling like this is it this is the time
we're doing this
now
yeah yeah I've been noticing shifting in
myself I
mean as we recently said on recently
published episode probably by now we
were just at a grief ceremony for
somebody in our community who recently
lost a child and yeah one of the things
that I might have expected hearing the
story of all the medical complications
hearing the story of all the Judgment
from side hearing the story of how rough
it was and how difficult and much of a
challenge it was for their relationship
my expectation might have been that it
would have made me less likely to want
kids and also in witnessing it and
witnessing the
love even despite various levels of
potential hopelessness just witnessing
the love that was
there actually I feel like made me more
likely to want kids which is kind of
freaky CU
that that feels like a process that is
not what I would have expected or like
what my intellect would do or like it it
doesn't seem like I'd be better off
putting myself in a position where I'm
in hospitals all the time caring for
someone
who's very likely to die before they
become old enough for me to know them as
a
personality and yet that story
just all of it has
done unexpect
ly
Indescribable things in my system that
make
me feel more likely to lean
into whatever that is and I'm a little
bit bewildered by that right
now yeah just waitting if you have
one like like yeah it's it's an
undescribable it's an
Indescribable you know like one of my
kids is is about to go to college now
and you know I used to count her life in
months and then I counted her life in
years and now I count her life in months
again
like yeah I I like
the how much I'm going to feel a part of
me ripped away when she leaves
home it's
a you're you in Parenthood you are
opening yourself up
to Unlimited
heartbreak whether you lose the kid or
not lose the kid if you actually allow
yourself to feel the thing of there
there's just
like and and it and like we like I've
said like the the the breaking of the
heart is like breaking it open it just
increases your capacity to love like I I
am 100% confident I could not do the
work that i' do in the world if it
wasn't for having
kids
wow yeah
like all the emotional work came from
raising
children all that all that emotional
work came because seeing just kids and
how they process emotions and how that's
our nature and and how like all these
intellectual ideas of emotions were off
like all of that like sitting in loving
attention as my children threw temper
tantrums in the middle of Whole
Foods like that's what I do for a living
today
that's
what that's what I do you know so yeah
it's like yeah the the whole my whole
capacity to Love Has Changed deeply
because of my children and they
constantly are constantly teaching me
that is
beautiful and really deeply
compelling there's yeah I don't there's
no regrets right it's meaning
like I have I have a story that's the
other day Esme and I were Esme was
coming to me asking for advice I'm lucky
I have teenagers who come and like ask
me for advice from time to time and she
was telling I can't remember all the
things about it but she was telling me
that like she was having this issue with
this boy and I remember looking at her
and
saying that's that's me like you learned
that from
me like that that's a when you were
three years old I did this I did this
you know I was not able to be with you
in this way and this way emotionally and
that created this fear in you of getting
hurt and I see that happening now and
I'm so sorry
for so sorry for teaching you
that and like
I don't like I remember that in that
moment I remember thinking wow I wish I
would have [__] up a little bit more
so I could have more moments like this
right because like when you're when
you're like when you're you're when the
kids are like two years old you're like
oh my God I'm I'm [__] it up and you
are like like there's no perfect parent
so you're definitely [__] up your
kids here and there and um but I never
thought that like we could actually have
like such a deep moment of con action
over me [__] up my kids right so it
was this
really yeah amazing thing that it's not
just like one moment it's kind of like
the unfolding that is it's a large part
of the power of having kids yeah what
I'm struck with there is also the gift
that that was for her because oh yeah so
many of us have we have whatever
upbringing we have and we come to love
our parents as they are and
wherever wherever they're at and also we
often go and do the work on like okay
these are the patterns that I adopted
and now I'm going to do the work on
freeing myself of those patterns and as
I free myself of those patterns I can
love my parents as they are but I don't
necessarily expect them to in their
context in their generation having
different access to these tools or like
the culture around self-exploration that
they're going to that we're going to
have a healing moment in that way but to
the gift for her as a teenager to be
able to have that experience with you
where you're owning your
peace shamelessly and with love is a
really cool
thing yeah makes me feel a lot less
concerned about whatever ways we might
impart our patterns on our kids because
those are just opportunities for that
experience yeah I also remember like
going oh it's heal like as soon as I
said it and as soon as she accepted it
I'm like that's that pattern is healed
in her and which is like something that
I don't see very often like oh if
there's actually that acknowledgement
like you can like it actually heals
really quickly which is which is a cool
which is a cool piece yeah that's
amazing yeah
yeah it hasn't that was three or four
months ago I haven't seen it come back
up again
so
y that's the opportunity of having kids
like they they will they
will with a big knife poke at
everything everything that unreconciled
in you I mean I remember early on when
we found hand inhand parenting it
was it was the first time that I felt
like I was doing it
right it was the first time that I felt
like oh this is how I'm supposed to
parent and so one of the things that I
just discovered through parenting was
like that listening to oh does this feel
right because when I had such a clear
understanding of like oh parenting was
and then when it went oh that feels
right there was this moment of oh this
is how you do
life like is not like you keep on
iterating until you go oh that feels
right and Har in hand parenting and that
part of parenting was the first time
that I had really felt that it was
another big lesson for me personally and
I and I can't say enough good stuff
about hand inhand parenting or about
Tara who insisted that we use it so I
was a little reluctant at the
beginning yeah I really enjoyed that at
the beginning of our 18-month
course that was the first reading it was
was like I presumed it to be a business
course and the first book was listen
from hand-in-hand parenting and it was
about
how to be with kids it's like oh I see
this is also how to be
with
CEOs totally
is yeah um but I'm also curious at what
ages did that for for asme and Uno did
hand inand parenting come up and prior
to that what what are some of the
patterns that you were in what were some
of the ways that you were parenting that
ultimately imprinted on them and that
you've learned
from yeah so una Got Hand inhand
parenting pretty much from birth as May
didn't get it till like two and a half
years
old and so that's actually what I was
apologizing for was stuff that had
happened before that moment um with her
I think
the so for me I was very much in that I
like the right way to parent is the way
that I was parented which is like I
think most
people most
people 90% of what they're doing is what
their parents did to them and then 10%
is something that they had a problem
with their parents and so they are
overcorrecting like I just see a lot of
that happen in
society um and so so I was you
know I mean I at the beginning of
parenting I was more quick to shame I
was I more quick to abandon more quick
to punish more quick to
have them have her listen to my voice
rather than her own voice right like
through compliments or through anything
like that and so through the hand inand
process and they don't talk about any of
this stuff it just happened through the
hand inand process like we don't shame
our
kids they might feel shame sometimes but
like we actively make it a practice not
to shame them we don't punish them and
you've met our kids it's not like
they're like full mayhem out in the
world they're you know doing great cool
[__] in the world and they're they're
amazing yeah selfs self- sustained and
so like none of that [__] was required
but I was definitely doing that kind of
stuff at the beginning you know getting
very frustrated
and
yeah yeah resisting the deep tissue and
massage they were trying to give you
yeah exactly exactly yeah and and
thinking thinking that it like there's a
weird way in which like children can ra
themselves like that's the weird part is
like if
you can be in loving witness of
children and you can draw boundaries
like which is often challenging like the
rest of it they can almost all do
themselves is it it's when you start
like taking away their excitement Settle
Down Johnny when you start taking away
their sadness when you start taking away
their temper tantrum
then you stop them from being able to
actually navigate the world and I think
that's one of the biggest things that I
see in parenting generally is that
people treat twoyear olds and fivey olds
and seveny olds and 12 year olds and 16
year olds and 18 year olds like adults
and they're not it's
like like you don't intellectualize with
a 2-year-old their brain isn't online
they're prefrontal they can't do
imaginary thinking what's actually
happening like you'll see this you'll
see these um parents and they'll be like
okay Johnny well you shouldn't do this
and you should do this and the kids two
years old but the kid is just 100%
responding to the
emotional presence of their parent yeah
they're not responding to the words
they're responding to like and that was
the amazing thing is to watch kids just
respond to how you are emotionally
is it's amazing like you get wound up
they get get wound up you calm down they
calm down it I remember
unaa like if I was non presentes un
would come over to my lap grab my face
and
like point it towards me and make me
have eye contact with
her and maybe she would say I love you
Daddy it was like she was she was like
this our field is not is
not coherent right now our field is not
not relaxed right now and so I my job as
a kid is to get us back into connection
wow and I I see that with kids all the
time like they're
constantly looking they're like they
feel safe when there's that connection
between their them and their parents and
if they don't have it they freak out a
little bit and and then need to regulate
through
emotions wow that that breaks my brain
cuz my my perception is always of like
parents are just just trying to be well
regulated and the kids are like ah milk
on the floor cry and the picture you
just painted is much more of like that
of an emotional support animal which
like just is totally not my perception
of kids but I can see it it's that they
are relating on in the early years only
an emotional or physical or embodied
level and yeah that would be such a
beautiful invitation that's constantly
there to like a
mirror that if you're listening to it is
a really
beautiful guide and grounding
to to emotional presence and if you're
not listening to it it'll be everything
that I described in the previous frame
yeah yeah and and and they do it what's
what's really weird is to know that they
do it when they feel feel safe or they
have no choice so like our kids would
like hold it all together when they were
like somewhere else and then like when
they get home they'd be like blah and
it's like to me be to be able to
interpret that to learn to interpret
that as oh they feel safe now they feel
safe enough where they can like get back
into emotional regulation through
releasing a whole bunch of emotions and
to see it as oh they're releasing
emotions so they can get back to
connection instead of they are releasing
emotions because they're out of control
or because they're bad or because
they're um naughty or because they you
know can't control themselves to see
like oh they know exactly what they're
doing they're releasing a whole bunch of
emotions so that they can get back into
connection and they would do it
consistently you if you just sit in
loving attention of their emotional
experience they will come back into
connection it's you know so they just
know how to do it and and and the the
the bigger problem is that we don't like
I didn't you know the bigger the bigger
problem was that like they would do that
and I would get disregulated by their
emotion because I feel responsible or
because I would feel overwhelmed by my
own version of that that I wasn't
letting out and that was like the big
blessing of Parenthood for me was that
like every single emotion that I was not
okay with I saw that in my kids and I
leared how to be okay with it I leared
how to release said I learned how to
love it because of my children because I
could see my children they welcomed
every
emotion oh I want everyone to hear
this yeah one thing that's bringing up
for me
is common tropes that I've seen out on
social media or common advice people are
like enjoy your kids while they're in
the stage where they love you because
eventually they're going to hate
you or [__] they're gonna
eventually they're going to be 16
they'll despise you and they'll move out
and it's just like oh that that's such a
common reality
that's that is not my
reality not only that like I noticed
that like all my kids friends who know
us want to be around
us like oh yeah I believe it I yeah what
I want to say is something I don't know
if it's true but like what what comes to
mind is like hey don't hate your kids
and they won't hate
you yeah there's there's something about
like like when what like like when the
kids hit teenage years which hand inhand
parenting doesn't really go into but
when the kids hit teenage years there's
something that happens where like their
job is to push against the pool there
like their job is to push off against
the edge of the pool and you're the edge
of the
pool and it's like their job and if you
give them the the kind of the lane to
swim in that's all that's really
necessary and the lane is like you know
you treat people with respect you
contribute around you know you you
contribute you treat people with respect
and when you show that you can take
responsibility you can have the
freedom that's all that seems to really
be necessary
I if you haven't like completely
emotionally [__] them up by telling
them that they can't have certain
emotions as kids and then they've never
learned to regulate
themselves that's all that seems to be
really necessary about it but most of
the time the kids who are like hating
their parents or have been told their
whole life that they there's some part
of them that's not okay it's not okay
for you to be sad it's not okay for you
to be angry it's not okay for you to
be scared it's you know and so they
they've been told that they're not okay
and why the [__] should they want to be
with or not hate somebody who's been
telling them that they're not okay on
some level for for
years yeah not that any parent not that
any parent is logically saying you're
not okay I mean some parents are
criticizing all the time but like that's
the weird part is that the parents
actually love the kids but they're
sending the signal that they need to be
adjusted mostly because the parent is
sending themselves the signal all the
time that they need to be
adjusted and so to not do that to your
children requires you to love
yourself you don't want to [__] your
kids up love
yourself yeah and that that's sort of
the trick for most people huh but and it
also seems
like uh there's this there's another way
of putting it something about um not
feeling ashamed of
yourself
yeah cuz I I got to say one of the ways
that all of this is landing for me is
like oh yeah this actually sounds
amazing I want to do this but uh it
seems easier if I could just be away
from everybody else during this time
right like if um like it seems no
problem for me to be in loving awareness
with my kid having temper tantrum in my
own bubble but if I'm in an airport or
something like that I I don't know how I
don't know how to handle
that
yeah yeah those are the those are the
best moments
too those are the best moments yeah oh
my God yeah I mean one of one of my
favorite stories was in the Whole Foods
as I mentioned and Esme just [__]
kicking and screaming and I'm containing
her so she doesn't knock [__] off the
the the the shelf so I'm not I'm not
holding her tightly but I'm like kind of
like being a blocker to this
three-year-old so she doesn't rip [__]
off the house and this like B me I live
in a kind of hippy community and so this
like little Old Hippie lady she's like
are you okay
dear and Esme just stops dead looks at
her and goes I'm just having my emotions
and then she went back and did like her
tempers
handum like this [__] awesome so yeah
I say that they're the they're hard no
out like to like okay we're doing this
right now in a Whole Foods or an airport
on an airplane uh like I and you're like
worried that everybody's going to be
like and they are there's people anybody
like yeah like have a kid cry on an
airplane then just look around you can
tell who was told they couldn't cry as
kids they're the aggravated ones in
the in the airplane and
um
and and those are the places that erode
away
like that like
that caretaking that ER erode away the
co codependence it's the thing that
erodes you protecting your uh your
reputation yeah yeah you are never going
to parent and not have people tell you
that you're a bad parent like like
there's like people told Tara and I were
bad parents and the people who told us
that right now will say to us wow you
got really lucky with your
kids like we had nothing to do with
it it just
hilarious
yeah in some way you had nothing to do
with it you just submitted to the deep
tissue massage that they were offering
lovingly yeah that's not what they mean
by it but yes that is
true
but there's also yeah yeah in here
there's the all the times that I've seen
somebody in public with their kid and
saying like no one wants to hear you cry
I'm just imagining them saying I don't
want people to
see you cry I don't I wouldn't let
people see me cry like what are the
different statements that they're
actually making there and that's where
like one of the things I think people
get hung up on so much saying this as a
non-parent aware of that is that people
will insist like no no no I love my kids
so much and that's true and as we talked
about in the episode how love gets
confused what that means can mean a lot
of different things and for a lot of
people loving their kids means
controlling
them yeah managing them in the way that
they were controlled and managed and or
or the
opposite or the opposite right yeah or
or being un boundar with them that's
love love is to be un boundar and let
them do whatever they want that's
another version of the same thing
yeah this is the second time you've
brought up boundaries as being something
that can be pretty challenging I would
love to hear more about
that yeah
so in general I find that the boundaries
are a little bit harder for the mom than
they are for the dad generally that's
not always true but that's what I
noticed to be the case um that like deep
maternal thing like I think it's a more
challenging thing kids don't like the
way I would say it is that there's like
a part of a kid that's like I want to be
independent I want to do my own thing
and there's a part of the kid is like I
want to feel safe and I need boundaries
to feel safe and those two things create
friction inside of the
child and if you don't give the
boundaries they feel feel unsafe and so
they start acting out more and more and
more to try to get the
boundaries and so the boundaries can be
really gentle and they're not and and
not to be done at a distance like they
it's like stay close and insist so I
wouldn't be like okay brush your teeth
I'd be like we're brushing our teeth now
we're gonna go brush our teeth now right
so it's not like you need to go and do
this it's like we're going to like
there's like a support and a gentleness
in the boundaries
I think one of the places that
boundaries don't get held in our society
a lot with kids is like kids start
yelling at their parents and like you
wouldn't let your kid yell at anybody
else like that
so what makes you what makes it okay
that they're yelling at
you and so to be very clear like oh I
see you're angry let's go get angry cool
great no problem and we treat each other
with
respect and so this this is like I I'm
not letting you do this and but the
strange part is is that if you're doing
that then you also have to not you have
to treat them with that same
respect like imagine imagine like for me
I remember this moment of imagining like
oh imagine if there was some like 1,000
PB 10ft man or 20ft man yelling at me at
the top of their lungs like what would
that D to my [__] system like a
grizzly bear just being
like
respect ex I be freaked out and yet this
is what this like and that's what this
little two-year-old's dealing with if
I'm like if I'm getting angry like that
I am huge I am loud like and then to
like like you know we leared this one
thing about when the kids were really
small that that like I would always
nibble on
them and it was all cute and everything
but then they would start nibbling on me
but it was
biting and I'd be like I they shouldn't
be biting me but I was biting them and
so to like if you want your kids to
treat you with respect like treat them
with respect if you know so it's it's a
very boundar thing but it's also a very
respectful thing and that that balance
is a little hard to find at times but
that's the that's one of the big
tricks is to treat them the way that you
want to be treated treat them the way
you want them to treat others they will
mimic you way quicker than they will do
what you tell them to do oh yeah
definitely I've seen that in kids for
sure I'd love to get like an example
boundary like if your kids are yelling
at
you what are what are different ways
that that boundary could be drawn that's
not forcing them to stop somehow in some
control way or abusive way but also
drawing clean respectful
boundary yeah it would be it would be
hey so that's not how we talk to each
other but if you're angry let's go get
angry I really want you to be able to be
pissed and then let's come back to or if
you just can talk to me with respect
let's do
that it's so sweet and then how would
you how would you help your kid get go
get
angry I might even get angry with them
we might go pound on a bed together or
yeah get yeah we've yeah we've
definitely gotten angry together and or
sad together
yeah like it the the otherness of it is
like something that really hit me about
that morning ceremony like this new idea
that's been coming to me is that
like people want to be um like people
want to be know that people are with
them in
it they don't want to be like
given advice or told what to do or
judged or anything like that people want
to oh like you're here in this with me
and and and it's a basic principle but
that's very true with kids
too kids want to know that you're in it
with them and if they feel that if they
feel like you're in it with them they
have a lot of respect for you but if
they feel like
you're doing it to them giving them
advice I see that a lot with teenagers
like I see a lot of teenagers shut down
to their parents because the parent
isn't in it with them the parent is
telling them what to do the parent is
giving them advice the parent is worried
about their choices the parent is trying
to control what they're doing through
influence or whatever instead of just
like oh yeah [__] that sucks that like
all your friends have just like gone to
a party without
you like you know again I I was on this
hike recently where I just watched these
two young college students talking and
then like the adults just talking to
them like I know
something and instead of like listening
to the wisdom of these two young kids
and yeah it's just something it's
something in that too there's like a
like when you were a college no college
student wanted to be spoken to like that
by you know no teenager like when you
were a teenager you didn't want a whole
bunch of advice from your parents unless
you
asked right you know especially if that
advice came with like I told you so or
you know you have you done that yet or
anything like
that yeah yeah I love how much this is
some you know different reflection of
um how I see you with people in so many
different scenarios situations and how I
think how your coaching
is
yeah yeah yeah I'm in view with my kids
a
lot yeah one of the things that that
does is it creates the space for them to
be also your
teacher yeah them to be issuing a deep
tissue massage on your rough edges
you're
nuts yeah we
were this morning tera's like do you
remember that time when hesme said to
somebody she said hey just let me have
my feelings it was like six months ago
do you remember that I'm like yeah it
was me she said it to me we were around
the dinner table I was trying to fix
something you
know yeah definitely then that's the
that's the beauty of of having
kids and and there is this weird piece
about like also realizing
like they can't have like theoretical
thought until they're usually
like whatever it is like I think that I
think it's like 15 16 years old but par
but parents talk to them like that or
they like their intellect isn't really
even online until they're like eight
they still believe in like Santa Claus
and that we're talking to them
rationally and they're just like full
feeling machines they're like in a dream
state so it's just it's an interesting
thing because you have to like part of
parenting well is that you have to like
live from their point of
view you can't live from your own point
of view on
them and that's like a that's a deep
lesson in itself
too yeah and circling that back around
to one of my
original fears and resistances around
kids
is but I'll have to grow up or something
something along those lines and there's
actually this other other frame of that
like I'll have one or more baby
Yodas opening me up
into into my emotional and that dream
state like reality to the extent that I
can meet them
there yeah that's beautiful that
definitely yeah yeah and don't make any
mistake about it like you will be
exhausted and you will be pushed to your
limits and you will not have time for
yourself and you will lose yourself and
you will all that stuff happens
too that's part of the that's part of
the deep tissue
massage yeah you'll be judged you'll
be I'm also afraid of what it will do to
our
relationship I was
20 five six years old before I met Tara
I went out
drinking typically the way I would like
pick up women at the time very
dysfunctional I would just like sit down
early on a bar and I would drink until
somebody hit on me and uh and so I sat
down and there was and there was a
couple and they were an older couple for
me at the time so I think they were
probably like 35 and they just had this
really great marriage and they were
drinking and partying which was
interesting but they were just so and I
found out that they had kids and and I
was like give me your advice like tell
me what like how do you have such a
great marriage because clear you guys
love each other and you have a great
marriage and you're intimate and and
you're partying which you know 27 you're
like cool partying is married couple I
could do that you know and um and
they're their response I has stuck with
me for my whole life which is the most
important thing in a marriage is to take
care of yourself and then take care of
the marriage and then take care of the
kids sometimes you have to sacrifice
yourself for taking care of the kids or
taking care of the marriage but the
priority is
always take care of yourself first take
care of the marriage second take care of
the kids third because you can't be in a
good marriage if you haven't taken care
of yourself and you can't be a good
parent if you haven't taken care of the
marriage and that advice sticks with me
I love it and it's such an inversion of
what most people
say right
yeah yeah it it reminds me oddly of like
a Southwest Airlines thing where they
say employees first customers second
shareholders
third because if the if the if the
employees are happy the customers are
happy the customers are happy the
shareholders are
happy yeah love it yeah it has always
struck me that inversion and it's very
true and it's very hard to execute
like it's very hard like especially in
the first two or three years to
prioritize yourself it's really really
hard but I remember when
like I I remember when our I don't know
I think the second one was like 18
months old was really hard because we
had been sleep deprived for years at
this point and we were like questioning
the marriage and Taran and I were like
oh I don't know like we can't fix
anything
and and some friend was just like you
need a weekend you have not had a
weekend together in like five years you
just need a weekend so we figured out
how to
like get a weekend which we were not
good at and it was like at the end of
the weekend all of our problems were
gone like we slept like 18
hours like three days in a row and we
just connected and it was like wow
really it was just about like connecting
and getting sleep that was it was just
like that practical yeah there's the
part of me that's like oh if if you
could do it after if you hadn't done it
for five years but you were able to do
it why not be able to do it once a
quarter if you actually prioritized it
and planned for it but then I hear
everybody with kids be like oh it's been
three years since we did any travel
without our
kids and also people don't want to I
imagine there's like I don't want to
leave my kids the moment I leave I miss
them so there's some question in there
there's there's there's some part of my
brain that I was wants to be like oh
there's a way to hack
this and and there is there are people
who are really good at hacking it that
like I like I'll tell my clients like
get somebody if you can afford it get
somebody 20 hours a week to help just in
any way that you can like that makes a
huge difference and or have a
grandmother you know
or somebody who's always wanted a baby
but how however you can get help I think
it's like really really important I
think the other some other like really
cool little hacks are take turns like
I've noticed like you know there's
there's been people that we know who
have kids they get overwhelmed and then
they they get divorced and somehow or
another now they they used to both be
working full-time and now they're both
working
halftime and if they would have been
working halftime when they were married
they might not have gotten
divorced right so there's this thing
that happens where you're just so tired
and all you're focus on is like is the
other person doing as much as me like
it's like that kind
of it's and and then everybody has to be
working all the time instead of like
take the day off I got today tomorrow
I'm G to take off like that is a far
healthier to give each other both a day
off you know tricks like there's like
there's just tricks like that where you
can fully get
your yeah
but yeah it doesn't matter you can do
all that stuff and you're still going to
be overwhelmed by your kids it's
times
yeah what one other question came up for
me just a moment ago and then evaporated
it was
really I wanted
it
um
guess I don't
know
okay there's one other thing that I
just yeah there's one other thing that I
just noticed is that like one of the
coolest things that like that
made uh being a parent such a strong
spiritual practice for me is to notice
that every time I was
triggered I was projecting onto my
kid if I wanted to to go you're selfish
it meant I was being selfish if I wanted
to go why don't you just listen it meant
I wasn't listening if I was saying you
need to calm down it meant I needed to
calm down to see that every single time
I was triggered I was making that child
into my trigger I wasn't just like
projecting it onto them I was making it
them like you need to calm down tells a
kid that they're not
calm you're naughty tell kid they're
naughty right so you're defining them
and and so you're it's like literally
the mechanism to make them into
you to hand over your patterns and if
you really see that it's such a cool
thing because it's like every time you
get triggered you're like that's me
that's me that's me yeah yeah uhuh I see
how all I see how raising kids um was
such gold for your journey
In This Moment it's like yeah what an
amazingly tight feedback loop immediate
immediate yeah W
yeah
yeah I can't wait for our kids to listen
to
this call us out on how far we have
fallen and you can be like yeah and I'm
sorry that's not how I wanted to be with
you oh
yeah and then you'll cry
together my
favorite that sounds like a joke but I
cry all the
[Laughter]
time that sounds like that feels like a
good end yeah yeah really beautiful
thank you so much yeah thank you
Joe thank you for coming on again
Alexa yeah good to have you here more
Alexa please it's so good to be with you
yeah okay and thank you everybody for
listening
and I'm G to say that with more feeling
and thank you everybody for
listening thank you for laughing over me
Joe one more time
with I'm going to leave that
in
good one more time with feeling thank
you thank
you okay I am really grateful that
people listen to
this and I'd love to hear how it
impacted you and if there's somebody
that you think would enjoy it please
send it their
way or don't or shoot us a
question or leave us
review one star five stars
whatever love you all take
care bye
[Music]
bye